What is SPI?
    Serial Peripheral Interface, used to commuincate with master and slave devices. Other transfer protocols are I2P,
usba  and ethernet. The pins that use SPI are the MISO pins(Master in and out), the MOSI pin(master out/slave in), SCK( Serial
clock). These pins will be syncronized with the PCK. SS stands for slave select. Used to select and individual slave
device. Thse miso and mosi are used to communicate between slaves and masters. SPI allows higher speeds. I2C is much
slower but more complex and can span larger distances. RS-232 and RS-485 can reach much further distances. 

Importance of slave pin select:
    Master must support SPI protocol. To use, the master must first select the slave's ss pin. Unless the ss is pulled
to 0 or ground, Master won't be able to access the slave. The SCLK must be sent along with the data. Slave's data
communication lines(MISO and MOSI) will be in HI-Z state or high dependence state until ss line is pulled to ground.
So, to activate the slave's miso and mosi lines, ss must be pulled to ground. 

Minimal SPI bus configuartion:
    The SPI bus allows the communication between one master and multiple slaves. In some application, the SPI bus may 
consist of only two wires-one for the clock signal and the other for synchronous data transfer. This method is used when
master isn't expecting a signal FROM slave, only sending to slave. SS would be programed to zero in this instance. 

SPI behind the scenes operations:
    Uses a shift register. 8 Master and slave have 8 bit registers. Sending SCLK initializes shift register. Each clock
cycle, shift registers shift one bit. last bit in slave shift is tranfers to this first bit in slave shift register. When
master sends data, it always recieved data. If 0 bit is sent to slave, slave shift is right shifted one bit, and last
slave bit is tranfers to first master bit.  

Customizing SPI Bus
    Allows the mcu to commuicate using different Communication. Full-duplex communication 
the shift registers of the master and slave are linked using two undirectional lines between
MOSI and the MISO pins. During spi communication, data is shifted synchronously on the 
SCK clock edges provided by the master. Half-duplex one single cross connection line is 
used to link the shift register of the master and slave together. MOSI of the master is
connected to the MISO of the slave, with a register inbetween. MISO of master and MOSI 
of slave is free. Master has to be in transfer mode and Slave has to be in recieve mode,
and vice versa. Simplex communicatio is in "simple" mode. Master and slave are in transmit
and recieve only mode. MOSI line of both are connected. Application has to ignore the
information captured on the unused input pin. This pin can be used as a GPIO pin. 

STM32 Functional Block Diagram
    4 pins for each SPI peripheral. Shift register can hold 16 bits. If peripheral is 
configured as Master, data from shift register is transmitted, and is configured as slave,
data is received through MISO to shift regitser. SCK controlled by buad rate generated if 
Master. NSS is slave select. Rx and Tx buffer can be accessed through APB bus. Transmit 
data by writing to TX buffer and if shift register is free(not busy), data in tx buffer
will be loaded into shift register and out of MOSI pin. SPI has control and baud rate 
registers. Used to configure data size and if master or slave. 

Slave Selct (NSS) Pin Management
    When a device is slave mode: The NSS works as standard chip select input and lets the slave
communicate with master. When a device is master: NSS can be used either as output or 
input. As input it can prevent multi-master bus collision, and as an output it can 
drive a slave select signal of a single slave. 

Two Types of Slave Managment
    There are Hardware slave managment and Software Slave Management. To configure for 
software slave managment, SSM = 1. In this configuration, slave select information is driven
internally by the SSI bit value in regitser SPIx_CR1. The external NSS pin is free for 
other applications. Instead of grounding Slave Select(SS), pin is set to 1 in memory. Do
this by setting SSM to 1 and SSI to 0. If SSI = 1, then pin is pulled to VDD. 
    Hardware Managment: Master SS is connected to slave SS. Master SSM = 0 and slave SSM
also = 0. With SSM 0 on slave, slave expects someone else to pull line to ground. NSS in 
master must be output mode. With multiple slaves, slave NSS connected to IO pins. Activate 
slaves by pulling ground to low. When one master and multiple slaves, master nss cannot be 
used and must be connected to VDD.  
    Important takeaways:
        1 Master and 1 Slave: 
            1. You need not use NSS pin of master and slave if you use software slave managment
            2. If you don't want to use software slave management then you can connect NSS
            of master and slave
        1 Master and Multiple Slaves:
            1. You cannot use software slave managment here
            2. You cannot use the NSS pin of the master to connect to NSS pin of any slaves
            3. Master has to use some of its GPIO pins to control the different NSS pins of slaves

SPI Communication Format
    Serial Clock Phase(CPHA), SCLK Polarity(CPOL) and Data Fram Format(DFF). During SPI
Comunnication, recieve and transmit operations are performed simultaneously. The Serial Clock
synchronizes the shifting and sampling of the information on the data lines. Communication
format depends on the clock phase, the clock polarity and the data frame format. When communicating
with SPI the commmunication format for master and slave must be the same. Data format, which can 
be 8 or 16, must be the same for master and slave. 
    CPOL bit controls the idle state value of the clock when no data is being tansfered. If the 
CPOL is reset, the SCLK(serial clock) pin has a low-level idle state. If the CPOL is set, the 
SCLK pin has a high-level idle state. In SPI peripheral there is a CPOL bit, if 0, starts 
a 0 or low-level. If 1, clock starts from high level. Clock polarity is wether the start is 
high or low. 
    CPHA cotrols at which clock edge of the SCLK(1st or 2nd) the data should be sampled by slave.
The combination of the CPOL and CPHA(clock phase) bits select the data capture clock edge. Data 
transmission has two edges, first when it rises or falls, depending on CPOL, and second edge when
it rises or falls depending on CPOL. Data is captured(CPHA) during second edge of clock. 
    CPOL of 1 captures on the rising edge, and CPOL of 0 captures on the falling edge. Default
is CPOL == 0. The why behind these settings depends on the application. If an application depends
on the clock state being high, the CPOL should be 1. 
    4 different SPI modes. 0 through 3. Mode 0 == CPOL 0 and CPHA 0, Mode 1 == CPOL 0 and CPHA 1,
Mode 2 = CPOL 1 and CPHA 0, and MODE 3 == CPOL 1 and CPHA 1. If CPSHASE = 1, data will be sampled 
on trailing edge, if CPHASE = 0, data will be sampled on the leading edge. 

    SPI Peripherals
AHB1 is for GPIO, APB1 handles I2C, SPI, USART and UART, and APB2 handles SPI, USART EXT and SYSCFG.

    SPI Serial Clock (SCLK)
    The maximum serial clock speed is based on the speed of the APBx bus on which the SPI peripheral
is located. In stm32, the 16MHz occilator is used, just like usart. Prescaler for APB1 is 1, so 16MHz
divided by 1. SPI has another post-prescaler, which then divides speed by 2, which leaves the speed 
at 16MHz / 2, which is 8MHz. In summary, if RC oscillator of 16MHz is used as system clock, the 
SPI1/SPI2/SPI3 peripherals can be able to produce the serial clock of maximum 8MHz, due to the 
secondary prescaler.  
